---
layout: post
title:  "In 2016 Why Are We Still Questioning Science"
date:   2016-12-20
categories: Science  
comments: true
published: false
---

In America, there always seems to be a portion of the population that thinks  science is bullshit or has an agenda. Even though science has been at the center of how we treat disease, understand the world and make sure our products are safe, there seems to be a surprisingly large cohort of non-believers. Sure, science has seen its fair share of mistakes and one of its central principles is to question it, so skepticism is expected. But our societies distrust of science is hurting our ability to productively move our society forward and it is our societies fundamental misunderstanding of science that leads to much of the distrust of some of the more important findings of our generation. 

A few years ago I read The Emperor of All Maladies by Siddhartha Mukherjee, a book about the history of cancer.  The book was amazing. As a scientist the story of cancer captured how haphazard biology can be and how long it can take to work out complex questions and systems in biology.  The book illustrated how in so many cases doctors have to act on the information that science has provided them and that they have at hand.  In the book, this is highlighted by some horrific cancer treatments (over invasive tumor removal is just one example where doctors removed larger and larger portions of the human body in an attempt to stop the spread of cancer). Indeed in sciences past experimentation was ofter intermingled with treatment in ways that would be deemed unethical today. But so many of the treatments that we conducted in the path have been abandoned for the more effective treatments that we have adopted today.  The treatments that we used in the past were the best we had for the time, but ultimately were replaced after new techniques were deemed to be more effective or less invasive. This is a perfect, although course, demonstration of applied science with a detailed history that we can all relate too.  Yes the treatments were wrong in the end, some horrifically so, but they were used only because we had not yet discovered newer, better, less invasive treatments.  And in the future we will look back at the cancer treatments we use today, and see them as horribly inhumane. But for now, they our best treatment for survival.  

I try to think of science as a tree.  Each branch and limb of the tree is a hypothesis. For example two branches on the imaginary science tree could be "Is the world flat?" and "Is the world round?".  Only one of these branches is true. The limb that is discovered to be true, through repeatable study, will continue to grow.  The limb that is found to be false, because the data contradicts it, will die and stop growing.   The limb that is found to be true, the round earth hypothesis, will in turn sprout more branches.  These branches can be similar hypothesis - "is the World oblong?" - or something different - "What is the radius of the world?".  These new branches, although based on the premise of a round earth, can alter our understanding of the original branch.  Each branch that is found to be true supports further questions that can alter our understanding of the world. Sometimes, whole branches are replaced with better branches - cancer treatment has abandoned mercury in the blood for chemotherapy - or sometimes new branches can add to the application of another branch - invasive mastectomies were greatly reduced, or abandoned all together, when chemotherapy is also used.    This fluidity, is often misinterpreted as science failing to produce truth because our understanding changes.  Interestingly, this fact is what makes science so powerful.  Even branches that have a lot of support are often re-examined using new information or technology to continuously better our understanding of all truths, a long and time consuming process.  

As science gradually works through problems, people can lose their faith in it, not knowing that constant reinvestigation is necessary to really understand the truth.  They think, how can science be the way to find the best information, when findings are so often updated, changed or completely abandoned. 

Further complicating our trust of science is that science is conducted by humans.  Humans are liable to make mistakes no mater how detailed or well intentioned they are.  These mistakes often lead to a further degradation in trust from the public. Recently the repetition of past studies has shown that some studies are not repeatable. How can something be true if inquiries cannot have the same result twice? Even scientist have become critical of science and have questioned the root structure of how science functions. 

Where so many people get science wrong is they believe that it works cleanly.  In our colleges we are often just given the end answer and we rarely see how many wrong answers we got along the way.  And research techniques are always improving. 

A great example of how we are working to improve the how we interpret our data is highlighted in ["Science Isn't Broken"][538] by [Christie Aschwande][CA] of Five Thirty Eight.  Indeed on top of sciences inherent messiness, recent headlines such as a journal publishing a study called "Get Me off your Fucking Mailing list" make a pretty strong case that our trust in the Scientific Method should be questioned.  However, a larger problem then a lazy journal editor not vetting paper correctly, are that some techniques used by journals to judge the validity of a study do not tell us what we want to know and that conducting good science is hard. An interactive tool in the article allows you to manipulate the terms of a study.  Even thought the same question is being tested different data returns a variety of results, some showing a relationship and other not, all the while testing the same question. This ultimately shows that decisions considered by researchers can alter a studies results.  

From the article: 

> ...researcher John Ioannidis concluded, in a famous 2005 paper, that most published research findings are false. “It’s really difficult to perform a good study,” he told me, admitting that he has surely published incorrect findings too. “There are so many potential biases and errors and issues that can interfere with getting a reliable, credible result.” Yet despite this conclusion, Ioannidis has not sworn off science. Instead, he’s sworn to protect it.

> The important lesson here is that a single analysis is not sufficient to find a definitive answer. Every result is a temporary truth, one that’s subject to change when someone else comes along to build, test and analyze anew.

> What makes science so powerful is that it’s self-correcting — sure, false findings get published, but eventually new studies come along to overturn them, and the truth is revealed. 

The article ultimately makes the case that science is indeed not broken, but that changes would improve its ability to get at truth. More importantly though is that Science fundamentally works based on repetition and replacement or addition (the science tree).  Studies need to be repeated.  

The history of science is riddled with mistakes, some intentional and some not. However, the thing that I think people so often get wrong is, science is not important because it is always correct. It is important because it gives us an evidence based structure to document and learn about things and it is a mechanism for questioning what is understood.  When done correctly, science is always trying to get humanity closer to the truth without a finish line, never satisfied with what we know.       

### Note: 
The graphics by [Richie King][RK] in the article are particularly impressive.  I highly recommend looking into some of the other interactive web data he's made. 



[538]: http://fivethirtyeight.com/features/science-isnt-broken/#part1

[CA]: http://fivethirtyeight.com/contributors/christie-aschwanden/

[TG]: https://www.amazon.com/Gene-Intimate-History-Siddhartha-Mukherjee/dp/1476733503/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1482270308&sr=8-1&keywords=the+genes

[RK]: http://fivethirtyeight.com/contributors/ritchie-king/

