---
layout: post
title:  "We Will Stop at Nothing: The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge"
date:   2017-10-15
categories: Politics Media
comments: true
published: false
---

It appears that the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, once again, is [on the verge of being opened][1] for oil and gas exploration and development.  The latest push to open the refuge has come, in part, as a response to falling oil and gas prices, which provides a large part of Alaska's tax base.  It is thought, that the increase in production in the state would help fill the gap. The push also is coming from oil and gas industry groups. Conservationists, such as myself, are dismayed that with almost the rest of United States available for oil and gas development, why must we drill here? 

## History 

The 19 million acre refuge was first protected in 1960 by the Secretary of the Interior, under President Eisenhower. In 1980, Congress passed the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act. However, the area currently being looked at for drilling, the coastal plain known in the act as the 1002 area, was set aside in the act for future surface oil and gas exploration. Even though exploration was allowed by the act, the area could be drilled only after authorization from congress. It is important to understand that attempts to drill in the refuge do not cover the entire refuge, most of which is inaccessible, but instead focus on the 1002 portion. 

## The Debate

It is no longer up for debate, Oil and Gas development has both local and global negative effects on the environment.  Production of oil and gas, locally, fragments ecosystems, removes habitat and disturbs wildlife. Globally, the burning of fossil fuels contributes to climate change, which effects ecosystems world wide.      

Its undoubtedly true though, our world continues to be powered by fossil fuels.  And transportation is still almost totally reliant on oil. Electric vehicles only account for less than one percent of cars in the US. 

But the debate, I think, is one that we need to have in the country.  Namely: when is enough, enough.  Free Market capitalists will tell you that we should wait for the market to tell us when we should start leaving oil behind. So long as there is a demand for oil, we should continue to explore for more sources and continue to drill until the market shifts.  

I find this argument unconvincing. We are the market.  Our system of government produces incentives for our society.  For example, the creation of the public lands system and the reservation of mineral rights under almost 400 million acres of private lands have produced perverse incentives that give oil and gas companies almost free reign over private surface owners properties (yep, that's right, if you don't own your subsurface, you are required by law to provide access to oil and gas companies on your property, so they can produce oil that is under your feet).  This is a perfect example of a government law, that incentives drilling.  And It is true, we need oil for our economy to function.  It is wise for the government to incentivise access to oil reserves, particularly, it is forward thinking to have these resources available during war times.  

But, when is enough, enough.  Clearly, we now have alternatives forms of transportation on the horizon.  It is true, we have not yet experienced a market shift yet, but with different government incentives the change could come.  Protecting pristine places would be a first step.  




[1]: https://www.nytimes.com/2017/10/13/climate/arctic-drilling.html