---
layout: post
title:  "Pops"
date:   2017-01-02
categories: creative 
comments: true
published: false
---

My dad backed out of the driveway in is lime green Honda Element - which my sister and I call Kermit.  The fly rods were in the back with a few beers and some sandwiches that my mom had packed for us. Bob, my dads best friend, and my dad sat in front, me in the back looking down over driver and passenger to the road. 

Driving through the City, Bob pulled out a hand held vaporizer to smoke some marijuana.  My dad never did drugs while I was growing up and he only had one beer each night. Bob's nonchalantness was a little surprising. But I liked it. This would have been common on one of my day trips.  

We got on the freeway, heading into the dry brown hills, passing suicide rock.  The rock easily visible form the freeway was spray painted in its entirety.  For Salt Lake City it was a blemish that I suspect the city despises but can probably do little about. 

Halfway up the canyon, it struck me how fortunate I was to grow up in Salt Lake City.  The first time I meet most people, they ask me if I'm Mormon after I tell them where I grew up.  The truth is neither of my parents could give a shit about religion, they just live in the holiest of holy Mormon cities because of local snowstorms that bring epic powder days. Despite my lack of theism, Salt Lake was pretty good to me.  Sure the Mormon kids would tell me I was going to go to hell, but the beauty of being a kid who is woefully ignorant of other people's religion is you don't really have a clue what "hell" is.  My mom always told me that the mountains were our religion and that we were "closer to god in the mountains than anyone sitting in a church". The mountains were my playground and I had plenty of friends to (puts - spelling) around with who didn't think I was doomed for fire.  We went mountain biking and skiing on the weekends.  I was happy. 

We passed Park City. My dad was a little odd.  He moved from Ohio to Utah in his early 20s to ski. But it was the fishing that gave him permanent roots within the valley.  In 1986, my dad opened Fly Fishing store in a neighborhood on 9th South and 9th east (9th and 9th), a bustling spot now, but then small and inconsequential. A bagel shop, a coffee shop, and a natural tincture store were his neighbors. The same year the store opened I was born.  Fat, dead (swallowed my own shit in the womb), but eventually very alive. I started skiing at 18 months (or so my mom says).   

We arrive at the parking lot to the middle Provo.  Bob a little stoned, his hyper demeanor more relaxed.  For some weed is more than medicinal. We get out, the snow covering our clothes quickly, my dad sees a friend leaving before the snow gets too deep. 

First the waders and boots are pulled on, then we assemble our rods.  Carefully.  My dad has a real appreciation for the equipment that he sells in his store.  He believes in the manufacturers, many of which are made in the US, and he thinks you should buy your equipment for life. Interestingly, my dad doesn't have a reel that they sell in his store.  His real is an old Hardy from England. Something they don't make any more. The reel is beautiful,  I have two now myself.  It isn't that reel manufacturers don't make good reels these days, the new reels are fantastic, it's that sometimes who we are is as much about what we do, as what we buy and support. My dad believes this fundamentally.  If you are going to buy something, buy it once, take care of it, and buy it for life. 

The snow really starts to fall. We all walk down the trail towards the water. My dad snaps a few pictures on the way. It's cold, but not freezing.  My gloveless hands feel the wet waist high grass as we get closer to the water.  Bobby offers me a smoke.  I decline.  I know my paranoia would be too bad for this situation.  I like weed and movies, not weed and family. 

With 2 million people close to driving distance from the Provo, it can be rare to have the place to yourself. But today we do.  Like clockwork Bob and my dad walk to their favorite spots.  You can tell they do this a lot. You could even say obsessively. We don't see anything rising at the first spot.  We move to the next.  Nothing.  Most people by now would put a nymph or a streamer on.  Not my dad.  He thinks that's bate fishing.  Like the reel, there's more to how you do something than just the action.  Fly fishing to him isn't just a fun activity.  You go you catch a fish, it's fun and then you repeat.  Fishing is my dad's art and it deserves to be respected.  To him that means performing the sports most challenging parts.  Spotting a fish eating bugs from the surface, stalking that fish, casting your line so that your line lands without a riffle, to present the fly perfectly as if it were an actual insect.  A lot of people don't get this.  "If nothing is up why not just go nymphing?" they say.  My dad keeps his replies to himself.  I guess it's the old school side of him. My dad at one point even printed a sweatshirt that said "Dry or Die". He ended it because it was turning away customers.  I still have one. 

Alas no fish were up.  We talked for a bit.  Bobby got in the water, tied nymph on.  He chided my dad and chuckled "Steve I'm tying a nymph on".  We both laughed.  