---
layout: post
title:  "Today Perfection Dies in my Writing"
date:   2017-10-09
categories: personal
comments: true
published: true
---

Today, perfection dies for my writing.  I've written a lot over the last year.  Probably more than anyone that I know.  I have published two blogs, including this one, written in a journal and written online. Amazingly, and in spite of my negative view of my writing, I've gotten much better.  But, I still don't like my writing, I don't think I have clear thoughts, I don't think my work is worth reading and I sure as shit don't publish most of what I write. I'm afraid that if someone reads my work they won't think it is good, and they will never read my work again.  I've been hoping that somewhere along this journey of writing for the last 3 years I would have perfected the art.  But I haven't.  Some days these keys evade my want to make something. 

Today, all of those thoughts need to die.  I will never improve if I don't show my work to others. If I don't give myself the room to make mistakes or suck or make something great. When I started taking pictures 10 years ago, my photographs were pretty bad.  I'd make the occasional lucky shot every 1,000 photos or so, but really my photographs sucked.  Today, I can get back from shooting 100 photos or so and have 5 to 10 that are worth editing and sharing.  And sure, sometimes I take dud rolls, but I can definitely see how I have improved.  

It's time I give my writing the same chance I gave my photographs. 

